in this lesson I want to talk about the
functionality and usage of azure policy
and Azure policy becomes the answer to
many questions when we think about
governance now in Ye Old Days in ye old
days I was a business user and I wanted
to have some resource created on servers
we had in our company now the way we did
that is there
was the ops manager the operation staff
so I would put in my request maybe a
ticket an email knock at the door and
they would kind of evaluate that request
they would make sure it meets the
criteria and requirements of my company
and then they would go and actually
provision
it but they were doing the checks they
were ensuring it met the
requirements well now we have the cloud
I have
Azure and Azure is all about the idea
that well it's
self-service I as the user and things
like devops and pipelines and continuous
integration and delivery and
deployment there's no ops manager in the
middle of this anymore
instead I'm doing this I'm provisioning
directly now as a
company I still have requirements that
have to be met there might still be
regulatory things that I have to be
careful of where I put data I can only
put it in these regions I have certain
security requirements as my company that
I don't go and stick things with a
public IP address I maybe need to make
sure data is replicated to a paired
region so I still have those guard
rails that I need enforced so how do we
do that remember every single
interaction with Azure is actually going
through the Azure resource manager so
when I'm doing this provisioning well
it's change the arrow slightly it's not
going straight to Azure as such that
arrow is provisioning into the Azure
resource manager and so it's at this
level I want to enforce my guard rails
the things that I need to be enforced
and the mechanism for for that is azure
policy this enables me to specify look
what are the requirements now I can run
that in different modes but the idea is
I create these policies that I'm going
to
apply now remember and I've drawn this
picture so many times now when I think
about Azure as a hierarchy remember we
had that whole idea of well AZ is
actually a bunch of management groups
going to get lazier and lazier as I draw
this picture but we have the management
groups then we have the idea of under
that at a certain point hey we have a
subscription and then within there I
have resource
groups that actually contain my
resources and if you remember hey we
could use that for role based Access
Control aure policy likewise I can apply
to all of
these different
levels and absolutely again this is
inherited so the goal of an Azure policy
is I'm defining some
requirement now I might end up with a
lot of different policies so what we're
typically going to do is instead of
assigning an individual policy well
we're going to have a whole set of these
policies what we actually do is we put
them in something called an
initiative so I'm going to create an
initiative and it's the initiative I
apply so that consists of n number
multiple policies go into an initiative
so it makes it easier to assign but also
then it makes it easier for me to track
compliance because I don't just use this
to enforce something I might use it just
cuz I want to know well are they meeting
that so I can see well what percentage
of my resources is actually are meeting
these
things so that's the idea of a policy
I'm going to Define my guard rails my
requirements and then I'm going to
assign it to a certain scope now for
those different policies they actually
can have different effects so I'm saying
the idea of enforcement I'm going to
make it do this thing but it's actually
not the only thing I can do when I think
about this assignment of initiative or
the policy and it's the policy I Define
this I have different effects that I can
do normally I'm going to start off with
audit I don't want to stop people doing
things I might have done the policy
poorly and it would completely break
down the ability for my environment to
function so if I start off in an audit
mode I can see well what percentage of
things are not meeting this maybe there
better communication I need to do in
advance I can do things like deny
so once I'm confident it's not going to
break the world and I need to actually
enforce this I could do deny there are
things like a
[Music]
pend there are things like
modify that tag addition for example I
might use that hey if it's not there
let's append this value to it and
there's even things like if not exists
so there's deploy if not exists audit if
not exist so I can actually help
remediate so I have all these different
effects and a policy is really just
based around hey there's some condition
and if it's met based on the properties
of these things I want you to do this
thing I'm going to use this particular
effect so if we jump over for a second
if we go here and you'll know it's
actually why I'm here on
subscription we have the ab ability to
see
policies so it's showing me the
compliance of all the policies that are
actually in place here
but what we can actually see as well is
hey assignments that I have at the
subscription level and ones at child
resources notice I have some initiatives
as well but instead if I actually just
jump over and we'll look directly at
policy so firstly we have the definition
so what are these policies actually
doing and there's a huge huge screens
and screens now I could say hey actually
I want to focus on a certain category so
instead of seeing all of them maybe I
just want to look at ones around
storage so now with
storage look I could say hey look I want
to limit which skews of storage you're
allowed to
use so here I can see
okay these are the allowed SKS I can
have I can have parameters so okay the
allow the effect I'm going to have you
can see I've actually got this applied
to my particular subscription and if I
look at
that okay so I've got the list of
allowed skews you can see the parameters
I passed what are those particular SKS
that I'm allowing within my subscription
and then my effect is to deny so if I
try and use a skew that's not one of
these it will actually deny me trying to
create that so a
definition is really just what am I
looking at so if I look at the
definition what is the rule down
here well I can see the rule is I'm
looking for it to be of type for the
resource of storage resource provider
and storage account and I'm looking for
a certain field so these are defined as
aliases but they're properties of the
resource so I'm looking at the skew do
name property of the storage account and
it's not in the list of allowed SKS so
if the resource is a storage account and
it's a skew that's not in the allowed
list this would apply and then it will
trigger the effect which in my case was
deny but again could be audit or other
things so that's all a policy is it's
hey what is it applying to and then what
do I want to
do but very often again I might be
trying to meet certain regulatory
requirements so instead of having to
Define individual policies and applying
it 100 different policies is I can
create an initiative so here I'm looking
at initiatives and we can see there's a
whole bunch of these buil in again about
things like
hipper um cmmc level three nist
sp800 consisting of
989 different
policies and the whole goal here is I
can just apply this
initiative and all of these will then be
applied and I can then track the
compliance of all of these together and
aure uses this for the security Center
so aure security or Defender for cloud
as we now call it has that Azure
security Benchmark which is an
initiative which just has 206 policies
and that is actually how as security
Center or Microsoft defender of cloud
works it has all of these policies that
goes and looks at things and then that's
how we track the compliance and we get
those various scores as we all it's
doing and this is huge it's going to
take a while probably longer than I want
to wait but this is how that actually
works it's using this initiative and
from this as well I can look at the
compliance of all these various
different things so here I'm just
looking at compliance and here I can see
all those different things that are
applied some of them are initiatives
some of them are individual policies but
I can see that compliance state of all
of them so the key Point here really
just is the point of a policy is it lets
me Define those things that I need at
different Scopes if I apply to a
Management Group fairly High I want to
be fairly generic with those set of
policies and then I get more specific as
I drill down closer and closer to the
resource